# The-effect-of-GLP-1RA-on-cognitive-test-scores
Bar charts showing the % change in cognitive test scores from five trials of liraglutide, a GLP-1RA.
While studies of T2DM patients consistently reported improved memory outcomes, no cognitive benefits were observed in MCI or AD patients. These findings may provide further validation of the connection between metabolic function and cognition, but also suggests that the timing of intervention may be an important factor influencing therapeutic efficacy, since MCI and AD patients in these studies were at more advanced stages of disease

Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM) shares common pathological features with neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer’s Disease. Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) is an incretin hormone that regulates metabolic homeostasis. Over the past decade, GLP-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs), such as liraglutide and exenatide, have gained recognition as effective treatments for managing blood glucose levels, primarily through their ability to promote insulin secretion. However, emerging research suggests that GLP-1RAs may offer additional neuroprotective benefits, with the ability to cross the Blood-Brain Barrier. 

Liraglutide enhanced cognitive test scores in 3 studies of T2DM patients (Cheng et al., 2022; Li et al., 2021; Vadini et al., 2020). In one study, 12-week administration of liraglutide led to significantly enhanced memory (measured by Long Delay Free Recall, Recognition tasks and Digit Span), executive function (assessed with the Animal Naming Test and Clock Drawing Test) and general cognition (measured by the MMSE) (Li et al., 2021). Similarly, a second study found that 16-weeks of liraglutide treatment significantly improved delayed memory, attention z-score and executive function z-score, but had no effect on immediate memory, processing speed or general cognitive screening tests (measured with the MMSE and MoCA) (Cheng et al., 2022). The third trial reported that liraglutide significantly increased memory z-score and working memory (measured with Digit Span) but had no effect on attention (measured with Visual Search Matrices and attention z-score) or executive function (assessed with the Trail making test, Semantic Verbal Fluency, Rey Osterrieth Complex Figure Complex and executive z-score) (Vadini et al., 2020). 
Together, these findings suggest that liraglutide may be particularly effective in enhancing memory outcomes, including long-term and working memory (Cheng et al., 2022; Li et al., 2021; Vadini et al., 2020). However, its impact on attention and executive function are less consistent, since one study found no improvement in either of these cognitive domains (Vadini et al., 2020). 

Two studies investigate cognitive trajectories of non-diabetic patients with cognitive impairment (Watson et al., 2019; Gejl et al., 2016). In individuals with MCI, liraglutide treatment showed no significant changes in any cognitive domains, including general cognition (measured with the California Verbal Learning Test), memory (assessed with Digit Span) and executive function (measured with the Boston Naming Test, Boston Visual Retention Test, D-KEFS, Pegboard and Rey Complex Figure Test) (Watson et al., 2019). Similarly, liraglutide had no effect on the WMS-IV in AD patients, which assesses memory and provides a brief evaluation of cognitive status (Gejl et al., 2016). Although both of these studies suggest that liraglutide has no effect on cognition in MCI and AD patients, this may be influenced by insufficient study durations and small sample sizes (Watson et al., 2019; Gejl et al., 2016). 
 
